hitting potholes our sliding it a curves
can have a major impact on your car I'm
glad we're talking about this because
you may be we can settle a long-standing
debate when you see a pothole do you
swerve to avoid it or do you just go
straight on through and pray for the
best
I don't know this I'm dying you know we
are about to find out my friends because
who better than our Monday morning
mechanic David Rogers from Keller
brothers Auto to talk about how to take
care of your car and those potholes I've
seen like my dad's a guy that will
swerve into a ditch to avoid the pothole
Chris I'm gonna tell you you know first
of all just in case of State Patrol's
listening I'm not the right person to
give you that fixes the car after you
hit the pot honestly I think the thing
about potholes and about swerving any
time whether you're avoiding an animal
or a kid or whatever you got to pay
attention to what's going on around you
because sometimes it might be better to
fix the car than it is to you know try
to make up for hurting someone which
none of us would want to do the thing
with potholes and the thing with
alignments you know in a wheel alignment
is something we don't think about much
unless your steering wheels pull and
clear off to one side or the other you
don't think about it much the tires are
becoming more and more expensive every
year and one of the best ways to avoid
you know wearing them out early is to
get even have an alignment done and
check them out this tire is kind of neat
it's a plastic model of course and but
it gives us some different shapes and
things that will help us understand what
happens you know here what we have is
kind of uneven it feels choppy as I run
my finger across it you can tell it's
not even and what that is that's from
bad shocks or struts because the tires
actually kind of bouncing it can also
cause some of this look to they call it
chopping or feathering what happens with
an alignment is typically the inside
tread will wear off or the outside tread
will wear off if the alignments out now
if you wait until you have that kind of
a symptom you're in trouble
your tires never going to be corrected
it's always going to continue to wear
that way and you've already ruined it so
the rule is when we hit a good hard
pothole or when we slide into a curb
kind of sideways you bump it a little
bit your wheel alignments going to be
off in most cases it's best right then
to go and get a good
I have that done and just prevent the
problem another thing that I want to
talk about today is shocks and struts
and how they affect these things because
even if your wheels are perfectly
straight they're not lean in any
directions and they're going fine your
tires can still get beat up really bad
and typically what happens is you have a
shock or a strut like this and they're
the same thing they sit on the wheels
they're designed to take the weight of
the car on a bump or a drop and hold it
up now here you can see some oil right
here now if you see any of that around
your shocks or struts you know for a
fact it's time to replace that you don't
need any other symptom it's leaking it's
no longer gonna hold the weight of the
car there's chambers in there that are
full of fluid and the idea of those
chambers I'm gonna see if I can get it
to make noise because it's leaking the
idea those chambers is to know couldn't
do it well the idea of the chambers is
to hold that fluid in there and dampen
the bounce and then slowly allow it to
come back up now when it shocks bad what
you begin to see and I'll do it with
this strut is you begin to look at that
is that gonna hold the weight of the car
up I think not so you're gonna get some
blanking when you're going over bumps if
it's all the way shot like that if you
hear that sound get to a shop right away
because you're not just damaged and
tires your damage in the car you can
actually ruin the vehicles where the
where these mount you can tear it out
and end up having to have some major
repair done now if you notice with this
strut it's really hard for me to push
down and putting all my weight into it
and it's coming up real slow and that's
really what we expect from a shock or a
strut that's working properly it should
come up pretty slow this one might be a
little past that but the idea again
folks is that you want your socks and
your struts to be in great shape taking
the weight of the car you want to make
sure your wheels are perfectly aligned
you can't look at them and tell
sometimes it's through and we'll pull a
little bit when it's off sometimes it
won't get an alignment every six months
to a year certainly have your shocks and
struts checked and this is another
reason to go see a real technician
rather than a quick oil change place
when you need your oil change because
he'll look at these things for you and
let you know before they start tearing
up tires
great advice so importance David thank
you have a great new year
yeah - Happy New Year my friend big it
is 619 here on your Monday morning